# Documentation for the `sas_compare` package.
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 *sas_compare* 
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
### Version information:
  
- Package: sas_compare
- Version: 0.1.0
- Generated: 2025-07-09T07:42:03
- Author(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- Maintainer(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- License: MIT
- File SHA256: `F*6CC4CD6096A37C7827AB828AF5CD417758626962513705C646ACD6B21A34599F` for this version
- Content SHA256: `C*8AA29CBE9383D1B8C9B37401B8DAF6165DCDCF92E7EA99E7FE35C671F9C568FB` for this version
  
---
 
# The `sas_compare` package, version: `0.1.0`;
  
---
 
Compares SDTM/ADaM, TLF datasets, etc. Assume a double program in the pharmaceutical industry to compare main and sub
  
---
 
  
---
 
Required SAS Components: 
  - Base SAS Software
  
---
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
*SAS package generated by SAS Package Framework, version `20241207`*
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
# The `sas_compare` package content
The `sas_compare` package consists of the following content:
 
1. [`%ads_compare()` macro ](#adscompare-macros-1 )
  
 
2. [License note](#license)
  
---
 
## `%ads_compare()` macro <a name="adscompare-macros-1"></a> ######

Program Name    : ads_compare.sas
 Description     : Macro to compare SAS datasets between main and sub libraries.
                   It generates PDF reports for each dataset, checks differences using 
                   PROC COMPARE, and outputs a summary report in Excel format.

 Macro Name      : %ads_compare
 
 Main Functions  :
   - Iteratively compares a list of target datasets between two libraries.
   - Creates a unique output folder using date and time.
   - Generates PROC COMPARE reports as PDF files.
   - Automatically renames the result files to indicate "OK" or "NG" compare-match status.
   - Aggregates comparison results into a summary dataset.
   - Exports the summary as an Excel file.

 Parameters      :
   output_folder : Full path to the folder where output files will be saved.
   main_lib_path : Path to the main library containing the original ADaM datasets.
   sub_lib_path  : Path to the sub library containing the comparison ADaM datasets.
   target_list   : Space-delimited list of dataset names to compare.

 Author          : Yutaka Morioka


 Dependencies    : Requires SAS/BASE, SAS/ACCESS, and ODS PDF.

 Usage Example   :
   %ads_compare(
     output_folder = D:/project/output,
     main_lib_path = D:/project/main,
     sub_lib_path  = D:/project/sub,
     target_list   = A
                        B
                        C
                        D
                        E
   );

License : MIT

  
---
 
  
---
 
# License <a name="license"></a> ######
 
	Copyright (c) [2025]  [Yutaka Morioka]

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy  
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal 
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights  
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell     
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is         
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                      
                                                                                
  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included       
  in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                        
                                                                                
  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR    
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,      
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE   
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER        
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
  SOFTWARE.
  
---
 
